#### RNDF Reader

This directory contains the scripts to read an RNDF file and extract the adjacency list and waypoints information, which will be used to generate the waypoints dictionary and control points dictionary.

##### How to use

* Place the rndf that needs to be parsed using rndfreader in 'src' directory
* Run the script 'rndf2dicts.py'
    ```shell
        $ python rndf2dicts.py
    ```

* After the execution of the above command, wait for the script to finish the execution.
* This script creates a seperate directory for each RNDF file with the file name in 'dicts' directory. 
* Now, go to each directory and check the control points dictionary. From the control points dictionary, we need to remove the duplicates and modify the entry that is prefixed with '*'.
* To modify the entry, use approximate2circulararc script. Before using, fit a circular arc between the two waypoints.
* After the modification, waypoints_dict.txt, adjacencylist_dict.txt, and controlpoints_dict.txt are ready to be used in the ros package. Move the folder with these files to 'package_location/scripts/database/'  
<br>
<br>

##### PACKAGE INFORMATION
##### Dependencies

```re```
```collections```
```StringIO```
```networkx```
```numpy```
```matplotlib```

##### Directory Structure

```
        rndf_reader
        |-- approximate2circulararc.py
        |-- bezier_interpolation_def.py
        |-- dicts
        |-- ReadMe.md
        |-- readrndf.py
        |-- rndf2dicts.py
        `-- src
            |-- road1.rndf
            |-- road2.rndf
            |-- spiral30.rndf
            |-- spiral_n.rndf
            |-- spiral.rndf
            |-- star.rndf
            `-- trefoil.rndf
```

> 'src/' directory contains the RNDF files to be parsed.

###### Read RNDF module (readrndf.py)

This script has classes defined to read RNDF file. These classes segregate the different
sections in order for the other scripts to have access to the data, and create waypoints 
dictionary and Adjacency list.

**class** readrndf.waypointsDict(rndf_filename)

_Create an instance of the class 'waypointsDict' and call the method 'dict()'
to create a dictionary of all the waypoints (waypoint ids as keys and locations as values)_

Ex:
```python
    >>> from readrndf import *
    >>> wpd = waypointsDict('example.rndf')
    >>> wpDict = wpd.dict()

```

Here, we are following the top-bottom approach to read an RNDF file.

**class** readrndf.segmentDict(rndf_filename)

_'segmentsDict' breaks the file and stores the information as a dictionary where segment id 
is the key and the information of the lanes is the value_

Ex:

```python
    >>> from readrndf import *
    >>> sd = segmentDict('example.rndf')
    >>> sDict = sd.dict()
```

**class** readrndf.rndfSegments(segment_info)

_'rndfSegments' class reads info that we get from segment dictionary. This class provides access 
to the information of the segment such as segment name, segment id, and number of lanes present
in the segment. Also, it has method to break the segment information and generate a dictionary
which stores lane information mapped to lane serial number_

Ex:

```python
    >>> from readrndf import *
    >>> rndfSeg = rndfSegments(segmentInfo) # get segmentInfo from the above dictionary 'sDict'
    >>> segName = rndfSeg.name
    >>> segID   = rndfSeg.segment_id
    >>> segNumLanes = rndfSeg.num_lanes
    >>> segLanes = rndfSeg.laneDict()
```

**class** readrndf.rndfLanes(lane_info)

_'rndfLanes' class takes information from the rndfSegments class and gives access to the lane id, 
lane width, boundary information and also creates the list of exit points, stop points, waypoints 
dictionary._

Ex:
```python
    
    >>> from readrndf import *
    >>> rndfLan = rndfLanes(laneInfo) 
    >>> laneId = rndfLan.laneId
    >>> numWaypoints = rndfLan.numWaypoints
    >>> laneWidth = rndfLan.laneWidth
    >>> leftBoundary = rndfLan.leftBoundary
    >>> rightBoundary = rndfLan.rightBoundary
    >>> checkPoints = rndfLan.checkPoints
    >>> stopPoints = rndfLan.stopPoints
    >>> exitPoints  = rndfLan.exitPoints 
    >>> waypointDict = rndfLan.waypointDict
```

###### Create Dictionaries from RNDF (rndf2dicts.py)

This is a script to convert rndf file into waypoints dictionary,
control points dictionary, and adjacency list. Some of the entries
in the control points dictionary have to be modified if the bezier
curve generated by a control points entry violates the deviation and 
curvature constraint.

Example:

``` python
# import this script 
# create an instance and initialize with layout name (ex: example.rndf)

makedicts = makeDicts('example')


# call the method 'createCPDict()' to control points dictionary
makedicts.createCPDict()


# call the method 'createAdjListWaypointsDict()' to create adjacency list
# and waypoints dictionary

makedicts.createAdjListWaypointsDict()


# clean files that are created in the process
makedicts.clean()
```

###### Approximating a circular arc to Bezier Curve (approximate2circulararc.py)

This script is to approximate a circular arc to a bezier curve

    Input:
        - waypoint ids
        - left turn (0) or right turn (1)
        - two points (P1,P2) on the circle in counter-clock wise 
            (Location of the waypoints between which the circular arc is being fit)
        - center of the circle (C)
        (Angle between CP1,CP2 should not exceed 180. In this case split the arc)
    Output:
        - Control points written in a text file

**def** roateP(point)

This function is to rotate a point 90 degrees counterclockwise.

Args:
    point : a point with x and y coordinates in a list or tuple
    

Returns:
    a numpy array of size (2,1) with x and y coordinates after rotating
    the point

```python
    >>> from approximate2circulararc import *
    >>> a = [1,2]
    >>> b = rotateP(a)
```

**def** bezierControlPoints(point1, point2, center)

Args:
    point1 : a point with x and y coordinates in a list or tuple
    point2 : a point with x and y coordinates in a list or tuple
    center : a point with x and y coordinates in a list or tuple

returns:
    A list of two control points between point1 and point2

This function function accepts the two end points of the circular arc and the center as inputs and returns
the control points for a bezier curve that approximates the circular arc

```python
    >>> from approximate2circulararc import *
    >>> point1 = [0,1]
    >>> point2 = [1,0]
    >>> center = [0,0]
    >>> control_points = bezierControlPoints(point1,point2,center) 
```  